Document `SHOW CURRENT GRAPH TYPE AS GRAPH` (#1560)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/schema/graph-types/list-graph-types.adoc

|    CONSTRAINT `animal_id` FOR (`n`:`Animal`) REQUIRE (`n`.`id`) IS UNIQUE,                                                   |
|    CONSTRAINT `resident_address` FOR (`n`:`Resident`) REQUIRE (`n`.`address`) IS :: STRING,                                  |
|    CONSTRAINT `stayed_in_endDate` FOR ()-[`r`:`STAYED_IN`]->() REQUIRE (`r`.`endDate`) IS :: DATE,                           |
|    CONSTRAINT `stayed_in_startDateExistence` FOR ()-[`r`:`STAYED_IN`]->() REQUIRE (`r`.`startDate`) IS NOT NULL,             |
|    CONSTRAINT `stayed_in_startDateType` FOR ()-[`r`:`STAYED_IN`]->() REQUIRE (`r`.`startDate`) IS :: DATE                    |
| }"                                                                                                                           |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
----

[NOTE]
Regardless of which syntax was used to define a property uniqueness or key constraint, they are all shown in the `specification` returned by `SHOW CURRENT GRAPH TYPE` using the `CONSTRAINT … FOR … REQUIRE` syntax.

> .Show the full graph type as a virtual graph label:new[Introduced in Neo4j 2026.06]

Author: I think we have examples elsewhere where they are in like a little block to keep them together, might be nice to do here?
<img width="1641" height="1334" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/22109d6c-c010-49e7-80cb-f7d6b3c1ef4d" />

Author: I guess alternatively we could do what was done for the combined command example and have a separate subsection

Author: (this also goes for the other example down in the constraints section)

Author: Fixed it for the examples section but left it in the constraints section 🤷

(robot:NodeElementType {label: 'Robot', properties: ['application :: STRING NOT NULL', 'id :: INTEGER NOT NULL'], constraints: []}),
(animal:NodeLabel {label: 'Animal', constraints: ['CONSTRAINT animal_id FOR (n:Animal) REQUIRE (n.id) IS UNIQUE']}),
(machine:NodeLabel {label: 'Machine', constraints: []}),
(resident:NodeLabel {label: 'Resident', constraints: ['CONSTRAINT resident_address FOR (n:Resident) REQUIRE (n.address) IS :: STRING']}),
(any:AnyLabel {}),
(person)-[:IMPLIES {}]->(resident),
(pet)-[:IMPLIES {}]->(animal),
(pet)-[:IMPLIES {}]->(resident),
(robot)-[:IMPLIES {}]->(machine),
(robot)-[:IMPLIES {}]->(resident),
(resident)-[:RELATIONSHIP_ELEMENT_TYPE {relationshipType: 'LIVES_IN', properties: ['since :: ANY NOT NULL'], constraints: []}]->(city),
(person)-[:RELATIONSHIP_ELEMENT_TYPE {relationshipType: 'WORKS_FOR', properties: ['role :: STRING'], constraints: []}]->(company),

> (any)-[:RELATIONSHIP_TYPE {relationshipType: 'STAYED_IN', constraints: ['CONSTRAINT stayed_in_endDate FOR ()-[r:STAYED_IN]->() REQUIRE (r.endDate) IS :: DATE', 'CONSTRAINT stayed_in_startDateExistence FOR ()-[r:STAYED_IN]->() REQUIRE (r.startDate) IS NOT NULL', 'CONSTRAINT stayed_in_startDateType FOR ()-[r:STAYED_IN]->() REQUIRE (r.startDate) IS :: DATE']}]->(any)

Author: I'm not sure how we want to show the results for the graph type, might be nice with some image as well? (but having the graph written out like this is also nice)

Reviewer: I think a picture would be nice, or even better. an embedded bloom/browser thing where you can click around in the graph. But that might be harder to get into the docs repo (my JS skills are not that great)

|    CONSTRAINT `stayed_in_endDate` FOR ()-[`r`:`STAYED_IN`]->() REQUIRE (`r`.`endDate`) IS :: DATE,                           |
|    CONSTRAINT `stayed_in_startDateExistence` FOR ()-[`r`:`STAYED_IN`]->() REQUIRE (`r`.`startDate`) IS NOT NULL,             |
|    CONSTRAINT `stayed_in_startDateType` FOR ()-[`r`:`STAYED_IN`]->() REQUIRE (`r`.`startDate`) IS :: DATE                    |
| }"                                                                                                                           |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
----

[NOTE]
Regardless of which syntax was used to define a property uniqueness or key constraint, they are all shown in the `specification` returned by `SHOW CURRENT GRAPH TYPE` using the `CONSTRAINT … FOR … REQUIRE` syntax.

.Show the full graph type as a virtual graph label:new[Introduced in Neo4j 2026.06]
// tag::schema_graph_types_show_as_graph[]
[source, cypher]
----
SHOW CURRENT GRAPH TYPE AS GRAPH
----
// end::schema_graph_types_show_as_graph[]

> 

Reviewer 2: We definetely need a visual representation of this I think, but I think it would also help to add some textual clarification of the result set at this early stage, particularly with regard to `AnyLabel` and `IMPLIES` (I know the columns are described below):

```suggestion
The query returns two columns: `nodes` and `relationships`.
The `nodes` column contains a list of virtual nodes representing the node element types and node labels defined in the graph type.
The `relationships` column contains a list of virtual relationships representing the relationship element types, relationship constraints not belonging to any relationship element type, and label implications in node element types. 

Four entities in the result are worth noting:

* `NodeElementType`: a virtual node representing a node element type in the graph type.

* `NodeLabel`: a virtual node representing a node label in the graph type.

* `AnyLabel`: relationship element types with unconstrained endpoints are represented by a virtual any-node with the label`AnyLabel` and no properties. Each relationship gets its own `AnyLabel` node.

* `IMPLIES`: when a node element type implies another label, the two are connected by a relationship of type `IMPLIES` with no properties.

For more information, see xref:schema/graph-types/list-graph-types.adoc#virtual-nodes[virtual nodes] and ref:schema/graph-types/list-graph-types.adoc#virtual-relationships[virtual relationships] below.
```

| (:NodeLabel {label: "Animal", constraints: ["CONSTRAINT animal_id FOR (n:Animal) REQUIRE n.id IS UNIQUE"]}),     |                                                                                                                                           |
| (:NodeLabel {label: "Machine", constraints: []}), (:NodeLabel {label: "Resident", constraints: [                 |                                                                                                                                           |
| "CONSTRAINT resident_address FOR (n:Resident) REQUIRE n.address IS :: STRING"]})]                                |                                                                                                                                           |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
----

> These lists form the graph:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Together, these two lists form the following graph:
```

| `STRING`
|===

[role=label--new-Neo4j-2026.06]
[[result-columns-as-graph]]
=== `SHOW CURRENT GRAPH TYPE AS GRAPH` columns

There are two return columns for `SHOW CURRENT GRAPH TYPE AS GRAPH`: `nodes` and `relationships`.
They are returned by default.

.Show current graph type as graph output
[cols="3*", options="header"]
|===
| Column
| Description
| Type

| `nodes`
| A list of virtual nodes representing the node element types, node constraints not belonging to any node element type, and nodes used to represent empty endpoints on relationships. label:default-output[]
| `LIST<NODE NOT NULL>`

| `relationships`
| A list of virtual relationships representing the relationship element types, relationship constraints not belonging to any relationship element type, and label implications in node element types. label:default-output[]
| `LIST<RELATIONSHIP NOT NULL>`
|===

> ==== Virtual nodes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[[virtual-nodes]]
==== Virtual nodes
```

There are three different virtual nodes used to represent parts of the graph type.

- _Node element type virtual nodes_: these represent a node element type in the graph type.

> They contain information around the identifying label, property specifications and any key or uniqueness constraints tied to the node element type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*  _Node element type virtual nodes_: represent a node element type in the graph type.
They contain the identifying label, property specifications, and any key or uniqueness constraints tied to the node element type.
```

Author: would it make sense to also remove the `:` if we remove `these`?
```suggestion
* _Node element type virtual nodes_ represent a node element type in the graph type.
They contain the identifying label, property specifications, and any key or uniqueness constraints tied to the node element type.
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, it does 👍

- _Node constraint virtual nodes_: these represent node constraints that are not tied to any node element type.
They are collected per label, so there is not one such node per constraint but per group of constraints sharing a label.

> They contain information around the label and constraints belonging to it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* _Node constraint virtual nodes_: represent node constraints that are not tied to any node element type.
They are collected per label, meaning there is one such node per group of constraints sharing a label, not one per constraint.
They contain the label and the constraints belonging to it.
```

Author: I realized that this didn't really cover labels without constraints that are used as implied or endpoint labels so I rewrote it a bit more than what you have

- _Empty relationship endpoint virtual nodes_: these represent the empty endpoints of relationships.

> Either an unconstrainted endpoint of a relationship element type or the empty end point of a relationship constraint not belonging to a relationship element type.

Reviewer: typo: "Either an unconstrainted endpoint" → "unconstrained"

Author: ```suggestion
Either an unconstrained endpoint of a relationship element type or the empty end point of a relationship constraint not belonging to a relationship element type.
```

> They contain no additional information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* _Empty relationship endpoint virtual nodes: represent the empty endpoints of relationships.
Either an unconstrained endpoint of a relationship element type or the empty end point of a relationship constraint not belonging to a relationship element type.
They contain no additional information.
```

Author: ```suggestion
* _Empty relationship endpoint virtual nodes_: represent the empty endpoints of relationships.
Either an unconstrained endpoint of a relationship element type or the empty end point of a relationship constraint not belonging to a relationship element type.
They contain no additional information.
```

> The node element type virtual nodes all have the label `NodeElementType` and then the information about them is stored in their properties:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Node element type virtual nodes all have the label `NodeElementType`, with their information stored in their properties.
For example, `(:NodeElementType {label: "Person", properties: ["name :: STRING", "ssn :: INTEGER"], constraints: ["CONSTRAINT constraint_bb1018eb FOR (n:Person =>) REQUIRE (n.name, n.ssn) IS KEY"]})`.
```

.Node element type virtual node properties
[cols="3*", options="header"]
|===
| Property
| Description
| Type

| `label`
| The identifying label of the node element type.
| `STRING`

| `properties`
| Any properties defined on the node element type, otherwise an empty list.
The format of the strings are the same as given in the graph type definition, for example `"prop :: STRING NOT NULL"`.
| `LIST<STRING NOT NULL>`

| `constraints`
| Any key or uniqueness constraints belonging to the node element type, otherwise an empty list.
The constraints are represented by their string descriptions in the graph type definition.
| `LIST<STRING NOT NULL>`
|===

> The node constraint virtual nodes all have the label `NodeLabel` and then the information about them is stored in their properties:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Node constraint virtual nodes all have the label `NodeLabel`, with their information stored in their properties.
For example, `(:NodeLabel {label: "Animal", constraints: ["CONSTRAINT animal_id FOR (n:Animal) REQUIRE n.id IS UNIQUE"]})`.
```

.Node constraint virtual nodes properties
[cols="3*", options="header"]
|===
| Property
| Description
| Type

| `label`
| The label of the node constraints.
| `STRING`

| `constraints`
| Any constraints belonging to the label, otherwise an empty list.
The constraints are represented by their string descriptions in the graph type definition.
| `LIST<STRING NOT NULL>`
|===

The empty relationship endpoint virtual nodes have the label `AnyLabel` and no properties, as they store no additional information.

> ==== Virtual relationships

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[[virtual-relationships]]
==== Virtual relationships
```

There are three different virtual relationships used to represent parts of the graph type.

- _Relationship element type virtual relationships_: these represent a relationship element type in the graph type.

> They contain information around the identifying relationship type, property specifications and any key or uniqueness constraints tied to the relationship element type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* _Relationship element type virtual relationships_: represent a relationship element type in the graph type.
They contain the identifying relationship type, property specifications, and any key or uniqueness constraints tied to the relationship element type.
```

- _Relationship constraint virtual relationships_: these represent relationship constraints that are not tied to any relationship element type.
They are collected per relationship type, so there is not one such relationship per constraint but per group of constraints sharing a relationship type.

> They contain information around the relationship type and constraints belonging to it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* _Relationship constraint virtual relationships_: represent relationship constraints that are not tied to any relationship element type.
They are collected per relationship type,meaning there is one relationship per group of constraints sharing a relationship type, not one per constraint.
They contain information around the relationship type and constraints belonging to it.
```

- _Label implication virtual relationships_: these represent a label implication of a node element type.
They contain no additional information.

> The relationship element type virtual relationships all have the relationship type `RELATIONSHIP_ELEMENT_TYPE` and then the information about them is stored in their properties:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The relationship element type virtual relationships all have the relationship type `RELATIONSHIP_ELEMENT_TYPE`, with their information stored in their properties.
For example, `[:RELATIONSHIP_ELEMENT_TYPE {relationshipType: "LIVES_IN", properties: ["since :: ANY NOT NULL"], constraints: []}]`.
```

.Relationship element type virtual relationship properties
[cols="3*", options="header"]
|===
| Property
| Description
| Type

> | `label`

Reviewer: this should be `relationshipType` right?

Author: yes, guess I missed one place from my copy-paste :P
```suggestion
| `relationshipType`
```

| The identifying relationship type of the relationship element type.
| `STRING`

| `properties`
| Any properties defined on the relationship element type, otherwise an empty list.
The format of the strings are the same as given in the graph type definition, for example `"prop :: STRING NOT NULL"`.
| `LIST<STRING NOT NULL>`

| `constraints`
| Any key or uniqueness constraints belonging to the relationship element type, otherwise an empty list.
The constraints are represented by their string descriptions in the graph type definition.
| `LIST<STRING NOT NULL>`
|===

> The relationship constraint virtual relationships all have the relationship type `RELATIONSHIP_TYPE` and then the information about them is stored in their properties:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Relationship constraint virtual relationships all have the relationship type `RELATIONSHIP_TYPE`, with their information stored in their properties.
For example, `[:RELATIONSHIP_TYPE {relationshipType: "STAYED_IN", constraints: ["CONSTRAINT stayed_in_endDate FOR ()-[r:STAYED_IN]->() REQUIRE r.endDate IS :: DATE", "CONSTRAINT stayed_in_startDateExistence FOR ()-[r:STAYED_IN]->() REQUIRE r.startDate IS NOT NULL", "CONSTRAINT stayed_in_startDateType FOR ()-[r:STAYED_IN]->() REQUIRE r.startDate IS :: DATE"]}]`.
```

.Relationship constraint virtual relationship properties
[cols="3*", options="header"]
|===
| Property
| Description
| Type

> | `label`

Reviewer: this should be `relationshipType` right?

Author: ```suggestion
| `relationshipType`
```

| `STRING`
|===

[role=label--new-Neo4j-2026.06]
[[result-columns-as-graph]]
=== `SHOW CURRENT GRAPH TYPE AS GRAPH` columns

There are two return columns for `SHOW CURRENT GRAPH TYPE AS GRAPH`: `nodes` and `relationships`.
They are returned by default.

.Show current graph type as graph output
[cols="3*", options="header"]
|===
| Column
| Description
| Type

| `nodes`

> | A list of virtual nodes representing the node element types, node constraints not belonging to any node element type, and nodes used to represent empty endpoints on relationships. label:default-output[]

Author: ```suggestion
| A list of virtual nodes representing the node element types, separate node labels, node constraints not belonging to any node element type, and nodes used to represent empty endpoints on relationships. label:default-output[]
```

| `LIST<NODE NOT NULL>`

| `relationships`
| A list of virtual relationships representing the relationship element types, relationship constraints not belonging to any relationship element type, and label implications in node element types. label:default-output[]
| `LIST<RELATIONSHIP NOT NULL>`
|===

[[virtual-nodes]]
==== Virtual nodes

There are three different virtual nodes used to represent parts of the graph type.

* *_Node element type virtual nodes_* represent a node element type in the graph type.
They contain the identifying label, property specifications, and any key or uniqueness constraints tied to the node element type.

> * *_Node constraint virtual nodes_* represent node labels that are not identifying a node element type.

Author: ```suggestion
* *_Node label virtual nodes_* represent node labels that are not identifying a node element type.
```

Either an unconstrained endpoint of a relationship element type or the empty end point of a relationship constraint not belonging to a relationship element type.
They contain no additional information.

Node element type virtual nodes all have the label `NodeElementType`, with their information stored in their properties.
For example, `(:NodeElementType {label: "Person", properties: ["name :: STRING", "ssn :: INTEGER"], constraints: ["CONSTRAINT constraint_5d8979dd FOR (n:Person \=>) REQUIRE (n.name, n.ssn) IS KEY"]})`.

.Node element type virtual node properties
[cols="3*", options="header"]
|===
| Property
| Description
| Type

| `label`
| The identifying label of the node element type.
| `STRING`

| `properties`
| Any properties defined on the node element type, otherwise an empty list.
The format of the strings are the same as given in the graph type definition, for example `"prop :: STRING NOT NULL"`.
| `LIST<STRING NOT NULL>`

| `constraints`
| Any key or uniqueness constraints belonging to the node element type, otherwise an empty list.
The constraints are represented by their string descriptions in the graph type definition.
| `LIST<STRING NOT NULL>`
|===

> Node constraint virtual nodes all have the label `NodeLabel`, with their information stored in their properties.

Author: ```suggestion
Node label virtual nodes all have the label `NodeLabel`, with their information stored in their properties.
```

For example, `(:NodeLabel {label: "Animal", constraints: ["CONSTRAINT animal_id FOR (n:Animal) REQUIRE n.id IS UNIQUE"]})` and `(:NodeLabel {label: "Machine", constraints: []})`.

> .Node constraint virtual nodes properties

Author: ```suggestion
.Node label virtual nodes properties
```

|    CONSTRAINT `animal_id` FOR (`n`:`Animal`) REQUIRE (`n`.`id`) IS UNIQUE,                                               |
|    CONSTRAINT `car_constraint` FOR (`n`:`Car`) REQUIRE (`n`.`licensePlate`) IS UNIQUE,                                   |
|    CONSTRAINT `resident_address` FOR (`n`:`Resident`) REQUIRE (`n`.`address`) IS :: STRING,                              |
|    CONSTRAINT `stayed_in_endDate` FOR ()-[`r`:`STAYED_IN`]->() REQUIRE (`r`.`endDate`) IS :: DATE,                       |
|    CONSTRAINT `stayed_in_startDateExistence` FOR ()-[`r`:`STAYED_IN`]->() REQUIRE (`r`.`startDate`) IS NOT NULL,         |
|    CONSTRAINT `stayed_in_startDateType` FOR ()-[`r`:`STAYED_IN`]->() REQUIRE (`r`.`startDate`) IS :: DATE                |
| }"                                                                                                                       |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
----

.Show the full graph type as a virtual graph label:new[Introduced in Neo4j 2026.06]
[source, cypher]
----
SHOW CURRENT GRAPH TYPE AS GRAPH YIELD nodes, relationships
----

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Four entities in the result are worth noting:

* `NodeElementType`: a virtual node representing a node element type in the graph type.

* `NodeLabel`: a virtual node representing a node label in the graph type.

* `AnyLabel`: relationship element types with unconstrained endpoints are represented by a virtual any-node with the labe `AnyLabel` and no properties.
Each relationship gets its own `AnyLabel` node.

* `IMPLIES`: when a node element type implies another label, the two are connected by a relationship of type `IMPLIES` with no properties.

For more information, see xref:schema/graph-types/list-graph-types.adoc#virtual-nodes[Show graph types -> Virtual nodes] and ref:schema/graph-types/list-graph-types.adoc#virtual-relationships[Virtual relationships].
```

|    CONSTRAINT `stayed_in_startDateType` FOR ()-[`r`:`STAYED_IN`]->() REQUIRE (`r`.`startDate`) IS :: DATE                |
| }"                                                                                                                       |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
----

.Show the full graph type as a virtual graph label:new[Introduced in Neo4j 2026.06]
[source, cypher]
----
SHOW CURRENT GRAPH TYPE AS GRAPH YIELD nodes, relationships
----

Four entities in the result are worth noting:

* `NodeElementType`: a virtual node representing a node element type in the graph type.
* `NodeLabel`: a virtual node representing a node label in the graph type.
* `AnyLabel`: relationship element types with unconstrained endpoints are represented by a virtual any-node with the label `AnyLabel` and no properties.
Each relationship gets its own `AnyLabel` node.
* `IMPLIES`: when a node element type implies another label, the two are connected by a relationship of type `IMPLIES` with no properties.

> For more information, see xref:schema/graph-types/list-graph-types.adoc#virtual-nodes[Show graph types -> Virtual nodes] and ref:schema/graph-types/list-graph-types.adoc#virtual-relationships[Virtual relationships].

Reviewer: I think the second link is broken. should probably be `xref` instead of `ref`

Reviewer 2: Fixed
